ladies and gentlemen we're all here to
see these two skillful and powerful
insects go head to head
one of the strongest animals on this
planet despite its teeny tiny size
mr ant will face a termite his name is
termy by the way
he has one of the most notorious and
fastest bites around
but no worries humans this fight's going
to take place in the woods
so your cities aren't in any danger
these guys are so small that
no human would notice them anyway the
ring is about the size of a bottle cap
and the whole stadium's about the size
of a cookie
um which kind of cookie chocolate chip
never mind
and now let's see the profiles of the
athletes
first up ant kingdom animal
class insect type n age
two to what weeks weight around
five milligrams distinctive features
head antennas
nasty sing phobias peppermint no
chewing gum for this little guy and now
kermi kingdom animal class
insect type termite age two
weight as rebel refused to weigh in but
a whole colony of termites can weigh up
to a thousand pounds
distinctive features head tubes that
squirt acid ew
phobias sunlight turmeric just can't
stand it and no amount of spf cream is
going to help
so in the blue corner and ants have been
around for over a hundred million years
and are famous for being one of the most
successful heavy lifters in the world
only a couple of incredible animals like
the dung beetle are stronger
but the ant smells better if a regular
human had ant size lifting abilities
they could easily lift up to 6 500
pounds
that's like half an elephant you pick
which half or your neighbor's pickup
truck
they're also long livers and hold the
world's lifespan record among
insects these tiny guys can live up to
30 years
and they don't really care where the
only place they're not really into is
antarctica
why did they name it that then
and now in the red corner turmey the
termite
termites love to sneak into your house
undetected by
biting through wood paper and even some
other materials
they aren't really interested in
fighting people though all they need is
food and either fresh grass or your
brand new sofa will do just fine
they're small and you might not even
notice them but there are way more
termites than people in the world
if you got every human together and
every termite together
guess what the termites would outweigh
the humans
we don't want them in their houses but
they're our friends
thanks to termites people get better
crops the intricate tunnels they build
in the soil
help water penetrate better and just
like that our crops grow bigger
termites also hold the record for being
one of the world's fastest animals out
there
they don't run fast but they can clap
down their jaws faster than almost
anyone
round one size both ants and termites
vary in size
some are actually pretty big some are
tiny
but on the average ants are way smaller
than termites
1-0 termi takes the lead
round two strength most ants carry
around 50 times their own weight
and even though the smallest termite is
bigger than the large ant
a single ant could easily take on a
termite any day
ants tend to be much more aggressive and
usually roll in a big group
you never see just one ant walking in
the woods there's
always an entourage sorry termi you lost
that round
ants on the board and we're tied at one
round three let's call it special gear
this thing's getting heated ants tend to
act like one of the relatives
the notorious wasp yes a wasp and an ant
have more in common than
you might think mr ant is ready to use
his sting
just like any wasp would do dermy's
feeling pretty powerless
he doesn't have any kind of special gear
anyway
even if mr ant decides not to sting poor
turmeric
his bite might hurt just as bad some
ants bite so hard
you don't want to know no matter what
ant bites you or stinged you
it could end up pretty bad the worst
definitely the bullet ant scientists say
it feels like you're walking on burning
coals
ow despite having the world's fastest
jaw
a turkey's bite isn't powerful enough to
beat out mr ant
some people say termites can bite
through bricks that's how they get into
your house
that's nothing more than a rumor they
squeeze into your house by finding teeny
tiny holes
and the only thing they really chew
through is paper or wood
yeah termy loves that stuff it has his
favorite ingredient
cellulose mr ant's about to win this
round
he's this close but hey look at those
tubes right on turmey's head
those things squirt acid yeah mr ant can
gear up for a sting or a bite
all he wants but he'll never get close
enough
mr ant might get lucky with a sting
though he can release a paralyzing acid
to stun
germany but not today turmey squirted
himself to a victory this round
and it's two to one turmey retakes the
lead
round four endurance hey looks like mr
ant's getting tired
he's going for a power nap he starts
moving slower
craving sleep but terming seems
unstoppable
he never stopped gnawing on that wooden
peg he brought with him
and he doesn't feel tired at all the
endurance of termites is incredible
they just never need to sleep the only
thing they crave
24 7 is food turmey leads
three to one but the audience is
impatient but
sorry guys mr ant's gotta wake up before
we continue
morning ant all right here we go look up
in the stands
posters everywhere and you're the best
termy's the toughest well they can't
wait to find out the winner
round five poison turmey's all relaxed
now
he's sure he's gonna come out on top and
seems a bit confused
he's supposed to be one of the strongest
in the world but he's about to lose to
this never sleeping
endlessly eating tiny beast or is he
turmy gives ant a little push just to
sort of make fun of him
but he doesn't know that mr ant's got an
ace up his sleeve
well in his backside right after that
friendly push
he starts releasing poison drop by drop
dermy's terrified he wasn't prepared for
that he thought his tubes were the best
but those droplets look really dangerous
jeremy has no idea if he can tolerate
the ants poison or not
and he can the audience shocked some of
them even start to boo
terming the ref blows his whistle mr ant
gets
one more point time to start the
comeback turmey now leads by only three
to two
round six all of a sudden termie
feels full power he's in the lead and
it's all good
he speeds up run towards mr ant but
it's a trap the ant just lifts turmy up
and throws him onto his back
it's the shortest round of the
tournament and it's all tied up
at three time to see who's really the
toughest insect out there
final round termy seems unstoppable
he strikes but mr ant is a total ninja
he moves out of the way at the last
second jeremy goes in again
but it's not working ants are tough
they've got a super strong exoskeleton
and as long as he doesn't get crushed
no amount of blows are taking this
little guy down
mr ant doesn't really feel any pain if
you have the same ability
you could play a game of chicken with a
rhino and walk away with your head held
high
in the ring or in the wild ants are
survivors
and if one ant goes down you better
believe it's gonna tag in
about a million of his buddies the
audience is cheering
everyone's on the edge of their seats
who's gonna be the next champion
who wants it more right now it looks
like termi
just found a new gear and some new
energy
he's not giving up he wants the title
he probably just wants to put it on his
cv maybe get promoted to a more
delicious tree
turmey's tried to finish it twice but no
luck so far
mr ant suddenly strikes back and ouch
he slips and falls right on the floor
turmey's starting to strut around the
ring
this thing's over but no and manages to
get up
this thing's going down to the wire and
it's all over a whole lot of action but
no direct hits
the final round's a time so is the whole
tournament
ah guess we'll need a rematch